docs: :memo: add installation guide (#53)
seedcase-project/seedcase-flower: docs/guide/installation.qmd

---
title: "Installing"
description: "A succinct instruction on installing `flower` in a Python project."
order: 0
---

Before installing `flower`, you need to have
[Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/) and
[uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/) installed.

To check that these programs are installed, run the following commands
in your Terminal:

``` {.bash filename="Terminal"}
python3 --version
uv --version
```

If Python and uv are installed, these commands will show you the
versions installed on your system. If you get an error, you need to
install them before continuing.

> 

Author: When we install via `uv tool install ...` wouldn't the package already become available as a command to use globally without the need to run `uvx seedcase-flower`?

I believe we can also decide that the command name (entry point) should be `flower` (in the python packaging setup) even if the package is called `seedcase-flower`, which would make the alias not required.

> 

Reviewer: I know we can change the name in the entry point. But it's a pain in the ass to use when the package name is different from the CLI name. I've experienced issues multiple times with `commitizen`, which uses `cz`. You have to do `--from` when using uv, on top of something else (randomly) when uv struggles to connect them. So from a usability/consistency perspective, we keep them aligned. People can use aliases if they really want.

And I didn't know about the `tool install` doing to global, that's cool! Let's do that instead, that's easier than installing `pipx` :+1:

> 

Author: Yeah, I agree it can be a bit annoying. But for some package it also feels quite natural, especially hyphenated ones, e.g. `scikit-learn` becoming `sklearn` in the import convention. 

I'm fine either way, but if we go with the full name, should it be with an underscore (`seedcase_flower`) so that the python package can have the same name as the command line utility? Or do we still want the command line utility to use a hyphen? 

For the CLI docs, should we use the full name `seedcase_flower`/`seedcase-flower` everywhere then?

## Install `flower` in a Python project

It's generally recommended to install Python packages in a project's
virtual environment to keep the project's dependencies isolated from the
system-wide Python setup and avoid conflicts. We use (and recommend)
[uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/).

We assume you've already created a Python project that has a
`pyproject.toml` file. If not, review uv's guide on making
[projects](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/guides/projects/).

While in the Terminal and in the project's directory, add
`flower` to your project's virtual environment by running:

``` {.bash filename="Terminal"}
uv add "seedcase_flower @ git+https://github.com/seedcase-project/seedcase-flower"
```

<!-- TODO: Change to `uv add seedcase_flower` when we've released it on PyPI -->

> You can check that `flower` has been installed correctly by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can check that Flower has been installed correctly by
```

---
title: "Installing"
description: "Install Flower to use on the command-line and in Python projects."
order: 0
---

Before installing Flower, you need to have
[Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/) and
[uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/) installed.

To check that these programs are installed, run the following commands
in your Terminal:

``` {.bash filename="Terminal"}
python3 --version
uv --version
```

If Python and uv are installed, these commands will show you the
versions installed on your system. If you get an error, you need to
install them before continuing.

## Install globally

Installing Flower globally allows you to use it via the command line

> from any location of your machine. You can install it globally with

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
from any location on your machine. You can install it globally with
```

`uv`:

``` {.bash filename="Terminal"}
uv tool install "seedcase_flower @ git+https://github.com/seedcase-project/seedcase-flower"
```

You can now run Flower from any location on your computer by

> typing `seedcase-flower` in the Terminal:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
typing `seedcase-flower` in the Terminal.
```
Or are we missing a code block here? :)

> typing `flower` at the command line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
typing `seedcase-flower` in the Terminal:
```

## Install in a Python project

> If you only want to use Flower in a few Python projects rather than globally,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you only want to use Flower in within Python projects rather than globally,
```
